README.md, before:

# DeciMojo

A correctly-rounded, fixed-point decimal arithmetic library for the [Mojo programming language 🔥](https://www.modular.com/mojo).

## Overview

DeciMojo provides a Decimal type implementation for Mojo with fixed-precision arithmetic, designed to handle financial calculations and other scenarios where floating-point rounding errors are problematic.

## Objective

Financial calculations and data analysis require precise decimal arithmetic that floating-point numbers cannot reliably provide. As someone working in finance and credit risk model validation, I needed a dependable fixed-precision numeric type when migrating my personal projects from Python to Mojo.

Since Mojo currently lacks a native Decimal type in its standard library, I decided to create my own implementation to fill that gap.

This project draws inspiration from several established decimal implementations and documentation, e.g., [Python built-in `Decimal` type](https://docs.python.org/3/library/decimal.html), [Rust `rust_decimal` crate](https://docs.rs/rust_decimal/latest/rust_decimal/index.html), [Microsoft's `Decimal` implementation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.decimal.getbits?view=net-9.0&redirectedfrom=MSDN#System_Decimal_GetBits_System_Decimal_), [General Decimal Arithmetic Specification](https://speleotrove.com/decimal/decarith.html), etc. Many thanks to these predecessors for their contributions and their commitment to open knowledge sharing.

## Status

Rome is not built in one day. DeciMojo is currently under active development and appears to be between the **"make it work"** and **"make it right"** phases, leaning more toward the latter. Bug reports and feature requests are welcome! If you encounter issues, please [file them here](https://github.com/forFudan/decimojo/issues).

### Make it Work ✅ (MOSTLY COMPLETED)

- Core decimal implementation exists and functions
- Basic arithmetic operations (+, -, *, /) are implemented
- Type conversions to/from various formats work
- String representation and parsing are functional
- Construction from different sources (strings, numbers) is supported

### Make it Right 🔄 (IN PROGRESS)

- Edge case handling is being addressed (division by zero, zero to negative power)
- Scale and precision management shows sophistication
- Financial calculations demonstrate proper rounding
- High precision support is implemented (up to 28 decimal places)
- The examples show robust handling of various scenarios

### Make it Fast ⏳ (FUTURE WORK)

- Performance optimization is acknowledged but not currently prioritized

## Examples

Here are 10 key examples highlighting the most important features of the `Decimal` type in its current state:

### 1. Fixed-Point Precision for Financial Calculations

```mojo
from decimojo import Decimal

# The classic floating-point problem
print(0.1 + 0.2)  # 0.30000000000000004 (not exactly 0.3)

# Decimal solves this with exact representation
var d1 = Decimal("0.1")
var d2 = Decimal("0.2")
var sum = d1 + d2
print(sum)  # Exactly 0.3

# Financial calculation example - computing tax
var price = Decimal("19.99")
var tax_rate = Decimal("0.0725")
var tax = price * tax_rate  # Exactly 1.449275
var total = price + tax     # Exactly 21.439275
```

### 2. Basic Arithmetic with Proper Rounding

```mojo
# Addition with different scales
var a = Decimal("123.45")
var b = Decimal("67.8")
print(a + b)  # 191.25 (preserves highest precision)

# Subtraction with negative result
var c = Decimal("50")
var d = Decimal("75.25")
print(c - d)  # -25.25

# Multiplication preserving full precision
var e = Decimal("12.34")
var f = Decimal("5.67")
print(e * f)  # 69.9678 (all digits preserved)

# Division with repeating decimals handled precisely
var g = Decimal("1")
var h = Decimal("3")
print(g / h)  # 0.3333333333333333333333333333 (to precision limit)
```

### 3. Scale and Precision Management

```mojo
# Scale refers to number of decimal places
var d1 = Decimal("123.45")
print(d1.scale())  # 2

var d2 = Decimal("123.4500")
print(d2.scale())  # 4

# Arithmetic operations combine scales appropriately
var sum = Decimal("0.123") + Decimal("0.45")  # Takes larger scale
print(sum)  # 0.573

var product = Decimal("0.12") * Decimal("0.34")  # Sums the scales
print(product)  # 0.0408

# High precision is preserved (up to 28 decimal places)
var precise = Decimal("0.1234567890123456789012345678")
print(precise)  # 0.1234567890123456789012345678
```

### 4. Sign Handling and Absolute Value

```mojo
# Negation operator
var pos = Decimal("123.45")
var neg = -pos
print(neg)  # -123.45

# Multiple negations
var back_to_pos = -(-pos)
print(back_to_pos)  # 123.45

# Absolute value
var abs_val = abs(Decimal("-987.65"))
print(abs_val)  # 987.65

# Sign checking
print(Decimal("-123.45").is_negative())  # True
print(Decimal("0").is_negative())        # False
print(Decimal("123.45").is_negative())   # False
```

### 5. Advanced Mathematical Operations

```mojo
from decimojo.mathematics import sqrt

# Integer powers
var squared = Decimal("3") ** 2
print(squared)  # 9

# Negative powers (reciprocals)
var recip = Decimal("2") ** (-1)
print(recip)  # 0.5

# Square root with high precision
var root2 = sqrt(Decimal("2"))
print(root2)  # 1.414213562373095048801688724...

# Special cases
print(Decimal("10") ** 0)  # 1 (anything to power 0)
print(Decimal("1") ** 20)  # 1 (1 to any power)
print(Decimal("0") ** 5)   # 0 (0 to positive power)
```

### 6. Type Conversions and Interoperability

```mojo
var d = Decimal("123.456")

# Converting to string (for display or serialization)
var str_val = String(d)
print(str_val)  # "123.456"

# Getting internal representation 
print(repr(d))  # Shows internal state

# Converting to int (truncates toward zero)
var i = Int(d)
print(i)  # 123

# Converting to float (may lose precision)
var f = Float64(d)
print(f)  # 123.456
```

### 7. Handling Edge Cases and Errors

```mojo
# Division by zero is properly caught
try:
    var result = Decimal("10") / Decimal("0")
except:
    print("Division by zero properly detected")

# Zero raised to negative power
try:
    var invalid = Decimal("0") ** (-1)
except:
    print("Zero to negative power properly detected")
    
# Smallest representable positive value
var tiny = Decimal("0." + "0" * 27 + "1")  # 28 decimal places
print(tiny)  # 0.0000000000000000000000000001
```

### 8. Equality and Zero Comparisons

```mojo
# Equal values with different representations
var a = Decimal("123.4500")
var b = Decimal("123.45")
print(a == b)  # True (numeric value equality)

# Zero values with different scales
var z1 = Decimal("0")
var z2 = Decimal("0.000")
print(z1 == z2)  # True

# Zero detection
print(z1.is_zero())  # True
print(z2.is_zero())  # True
```

### 9. Real World Financial Examples

```mojo
# Monthly loan payment calculation
var principal = Decimal("200000")  # $200,000 loan
var annual_rate = Decimal("0.05")  # 5% interest rate
var monthly_rate = annual_rate / Decimal("12")
var num_payments = Decimal("360")  # 30 years

# Monthly payment formula: P * r(1+r)^n/((1+r)^n-1)
var numerator = monthly_rate * (Decimal("1") + monthly_rate) ** 360
var denominator = (Decimal("1") + monthly_rate) ** 360 - Decimal("1")
var payment = principal * (numerator / denominator)
print("Monthly payment: $" + String(round(payment, 2)))  # $1,073.64

# Correct handling of multiple items and discounts
var item1 = Decimal("29.99")
var item2 = Decimal("59.99")
var subtotal = item1 + item2  # 89.98
var discount = subtotal * Decimal("0.15")  # 15% off
var after_discount = subtotal - discount
var tax = after_discount * Decimal("0.08")  # 8% tax
var final = after_discount + tax
print("Final price: $" + String(round(final, 2)))
```

### 10. Maximum Precision and Limit Testing

```mojo
# Maximum value supported
var max_val = Decimal.MAX()
print(max_val)  # 79228162514264337593543950335

# Minimum value supported
var min_val = Decimal.MIN()
print(min_val)  # -79228162514264337593543950335

# Operations near limits
var near_max = Decimal("79228162514264337593543950334")  # MAX() - 1
var still_valid = near_max + Decimal("1")
print(still_valid == max_val)  # True

# Maximum precision for high-accuracy scientific calculations
var pi = Decimal("3.1415926535897932384626433832")
var radius = Decimal("2.5")
var area = pi * (radius ** 2)
print("Circle area: " + String(area))  # Precisely calculated area
```

## Tests and benches

After cloning the repo onto your local disk, you can:

- Use `magic run test` (or `maigic run t`) to run tests.
- Use `magic run bench` (or `magic run b`) to generate logs for benchmarking tests agains `python.decimal` module. The log files are saved in `benches/logs/`.

## Related Projects

I am also working on NuMojo, a library for numerical computing in Mojo 🔥 similar to NumPy, SciPy in Python. If you are also interested, you can [check it out here](https://github.com/Mojo-Numerics-and-Algorithms-group/NuMojo).

## License

Distributed under the Apache 2.0 License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/forFudan/decimojo/blob/main/LICENSE) for details.

## Acknowledgements

Built with the [Mojo programming language 🔥](https://www.modular.com/mojo) created by [Modular](https://www.modular.com/).

Commit message:

[decimal] Optimize `add()` function and remove string-based addition and subtraction (#16)
This will bring:

- **More Efficient Addition/Subtraction**: Operations like addition no
longer need separate code paths for same/different signs since the
signed integer types handle this natively. String-based add and subtract
are removed.
- **Streamlined Overflow Handling**: The code includes better handling
of large values that exceed the 96-bit coefficient limit, with explicit
truncation logic using `decimojo.utility.truncate_to_max()`.
- Add several auxiliary functions and move the internal functions to a
new module `utility`.
- Documentational changes.

README.md, after:

# DeciMojo

A fixed-point decimal arithmetic library implemented in [the Mojo programming language 🔥](https://www.modular.com/mojo).

## Overview

DeciMojo provides a Decimal type implementation for Mojo with fixed-precision arithmetic, designed to handle financial calculations and other scenarios where floating-point rounding errors are problematic.

Repo: [https://github.com/forFudan/DeciMojo](https://github.com/forFudan/DeciMojo)

## Objective

Financial calculations and data analysis require precise decimal arithmetic that floating-point numbers cannot reliably provide. As someone working in finance and credit risk model validation, I needed a dependable correctly-rounded, fixed-precision numeric type when migrating my personal projects from Python to Mojo.

Since Mojo currently lacks a native Decimal type in its standard library, I decided to create my own implementation to fill that gap.

This project draws inspiration from several established decimal implementations and documentation, e.g., [Python built-in `Decimal` type](https://docs.python.org/3/library/decimal.html), [Rust `rust_decimal` crate](https://docs.rs/rust_decimal/latest/rust_decimal/index.html), [Microsoft's `Decimal` implementation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.decimal.getbits?view=net-9.0&redirectedfrom=MSDN#System_Decimal_GetBits_System_Decimal_), [General Decimal Arithmetic Specification](https://speleotrove.com/decimal/decarith.html), etc. Many thanks to these predecessors for their contributions and their commitment to open knowledge sharing.

## Nomenclature

DeciMojo combines "Decimal" and "Mojo" - reflecting both its purpose (decimal arithmetic) and the programming language it's implemented in. The name highlights the project's focus on bringing precise decimal calculations to the Mojo ecosystem.

For brevity, you can also refer to it "decimo" (derived from the Latin root "decimus" meaning "tenth").

## Status

Rome is not built in one day. DeciMojo is currently under active development and appears to be between the **"make it work"** and **"make it right"** phases, leaning more toward the latter. Bug reports and feature requests are welcome! If you encounter issues, please [file them here](https://github.com/forFudan/decimojo/issues).

### Make it Work ✅ (MOSTLY COMPLETED)

- Core decimal implementation exists and functions
- Basic arithmetic operations (+, -, *, /) are implemented
- Type conversions to/from various formats work
- String representation and parsing are functional
- Construction from different sources (strings, numbers) is supported

### Make it Right 🔄 (IN PROGRESS)

- Edge case handling is being addressed (division by zero, zero to negative power)
- Scale and precision management shows sophistication
- Financial calculations demonstrate proper rounding
- High precision support is implemented (up to 28 decimal places)
- The examples show robust handling of various scenarios

### Make it Fast ⏳ (FUTURE WORK)

- Performance optimization is acknowledged but not currently prioritized

## Examples

Here are 10 key examples highlighting the most important features of the `Decimal` type in its current state:

### 1. Fixed-Point Precision for Financial Calculations

```mojo
from decimojo.prelude import *

# The classic floating-point problem
print(0.1 + 0.2)  # 0.30000000000000004 (not exactly 0.3)

# Decimal solves this with exact representation
var d1 = Decimal("0.1")
var d2 = Decimal("0.2")
var sum = d1 + d2
print(sum)  # Exactly 0.3

# Financial calculation example - computing tax
var price = Decimal("19.99")
var tax_rate = Decimal("0.0725")
var tax = price * tax_rate  # Exactly 1.449275
var total = price + tax     # Exactly 21.439275
```

### 2. Basic Arithmetic with Proper Rounding

```mojo
# Addition with different scales
var a = Decimal("123.45")
var b = Decimal("67.8")
print(a + b)  # 191.25 (preserves highest precision)

# Subtraction with negative result
var c = Decimal("50")
var d = Decimal("75.25")
print(c - d)  # -25.25

# Multiplication preserving full precision
var e = Decimal("12.34")
var f = Decimal("5.67")
print(e * f)  # 69.9678 (all digits preserved)

# Division with repeating decimals handled precisely
var g = Decimal("1")
var h = Decimal("3")
print(g / h)  # 0.3333333333333333333333333333 (to precision limit)
```

### 3. Scale and Precision Management

```mojo
# Scale refers to number of decimal places
var d1 = Decimal("123.45")
print(d1.scale())  # 2

var d2 = Decimal("123.4500")
print(d2.scale())  # 4

# Arithmetic operations combine scales appropriately
var sum = Decimal("0.123") + Decimal("0.45")  # Takes larger scale
print(sum)  # 0.573

var product = Decimal("0.12") * Decimal("0.34")  # Sums the scales
print(product)  # 0.0408

# High precision is preserved (up to 28 decimal places)
var precise = Decimal("0.1234567890123456789012345678")
print(precise)  # 0.1234567890123456789012345678
```

### 4. Sign Handling and Absolute Value

```mojo
# Negation operator
var pos = Decimal("123.45")
var neg = -pos
print(neg)  # -123.45

# Multiple negations
var back_to_pos = -(-pos)
print(back_to_pos)  # 123.45

# Absolute value
var abs_val = abs(Decimal("-987.65"))
print(abs_val)  # 987.65

# Sign checking
print(Decimal("-123.45").is_negative())  # True
print(Decimal("0").is_negative())        # False
print(Decimal("123.45").is_negative())   # False
```

### 5. Advanced Mathematical Operations

```mojo
from decimojo.mathematics import sqrt

# Integer powers
var squared = Decimal("3") ** 2
print(squared)  # 9

# Negative powers (reciprocals)
var recip = Decimal("2") ** (-1)
print(recip)  # 0.5

# Square root with high precision
var root2 = sqrt(Decimal("2"))
print(root2)  # 1.414213562373095048801688724...

# Special cases
print(Decimal("10") ** 0)  # 1 (anything to power 0)
print(Decimal("1") ** 20)  # 1 (1 to any power)
print(Decimal("0") ** 5)   # 0 (0 to positive power)
```

### 6. Type Conversions and Interoperability

```mojo
var d = Decimal("123.456")

# Converting to string (for display or serialization)
var str_val = String(d)
print(str_val)  # "123.456"

# Getting internal representation 
print(repr(d))  # Shows internal state

# Converting to int (truncates toward zero)
var i = Int(d)
print(i)  # 123

# Converting to float (may lose precision)
var f = Float64(d)
print(f)  # 123.456
```

### 7. Handling Edge Cases and Errors

```mojo
# Division by zero is properly caught
try:
    var result = Decimal("10") / Decimal("0")
except:
    print("Division by zero properly detected")

# Zero raised to negative power
try:
    var invalid = Decimal("0") ** (-1)
except:
    print("Zero to negative power properly detected")
    
# Smallest representable positive value
var tiny = Decimal("0." + "0" * 27 + "1")  # 28 decimal places
print(tiny)  # 0.0000000000000000000000000001
```

### 8. Equality and Zero Comparisons

```mojo
# Equal values with different representations
var a = Decimal("123.4500")
var b = Decimal("123.45")
print(a == b)  # True (numeric value equality)

# Zero values with different scales
var z1 = Decimal("0")
var z2 = Decimal("0.000")
print(z1 == z2)  # True

# Zero detection
print(z1.is_zero())  # True
print(z2.is_zero())  # True
```

### 9. Real World Financial Examples

```mojo
# Monthly loan payment calculation
var principal = Decimal("200000")  # $200,000 loan
var annual_rate = Decimal("0.05")  # 5% interest rate
var monthly_rate = annual_rate / Decimal("12")
var num_payments = Decimal("360")  # 30 years

# Monthly payment formula: P * r(1+r)^n/((1+r)^n-1)
var numerator = monthly_rate * (Decimal("1") + monthly_rate) ** 360
var denominator = (Decimal("1") + monthly_rate) ** 360 - Decimal("1")
var payment = principal * (numerator / denominator)
print("Monthly payment: $" + String(round(payment, 2)))  # $1,073.64

# Correct handling of multiple items and discounts
var item1 = Decimal("29.99")
var item2 = Decimal("59.99")
var subtotal = item1 + item2  # 89.98
var discount = subtotal * Decimal("0.15")  # 15% off
var after_discount = subtotal - discount
var tax = after_discount * Decimal("0.08")  # 8% tax
var final = after_discount + tax
print("Final price: $" + String(round(final, 2)))
```

### 10. Maximum Precision and Limit Testing

```mojo
# Maximum value supported
var max_val = Decimal.MAX()
print(max_val)  # 79228162514264337593543950335

# Minimum value supported
var min_val = Decimal.MIN()
print(min_val)  # -79228162514264337593543950335

# Operations near limits
var near_max = Decimal("79228162514264337593543950334")  # MAX() - 1
var still_valid = near_max + Decimal("1")
print(still_valid == max_val)  # True

# Maximum precision for high-accuracy scientific calculations
var pi = Decimal("3.1415926535897932384626433832")
var radius = Decimal("2.5")
var area = pi * (radius ** 2)
print("Circle area: " + String(area))  # Precisely calculated area
```

## Tests and benches

After cloning the repo onto your local disk, you can:

- Use `magic run test` (or `maigic run t`) to run tests.
- Use `magic run bench` (or `magic run b`) to generate logs for benchmarking tests agains `python.decimal` module. The log files are saved in `benches/logs/`.

## License

Distributed under the Apache 2.0 License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/forFudan/decimojo/blob/main/LICENSE) for details.

If you find DeciMojo useful for your research, consider listing it in your citations 😀.

```tex
@software{Zhu.2025,
    author       = {Zhu, Yuhao},
    year         = {2025},
    title        = {DeciMojo: A fixed-point decimal arithmetic library in Mojo},
    url          = {https://github.com/forFudan/DeciMojo},
    version      = {0.1.0},
    note = {Computer Software}
}
```
