docs/todo.md, before:

# TODO

This is a to-do list for DeciMojo.

- [ ] When Mojo supports **global variables**, implement a global variable for the `BigDecimal` class to store the precision of the decimal number. This will allow users to set the precision globally, rather than having to set it for each function of the `BigDecimal` class.
- [ ] When Mojo supports **enum types**, implement an enum type for the rounding mode.
- [ ] Implement a complex number class `BigComplex` that uses `BigDecimal` for the real and imaginary parts. This will allow users to perform high-precision complex number arithmetic.
- [ ] Implement different methods for adding decimojo types with `Int` types so that an implicit conversion is not required.
- [ ] Use debug mode to check for unnecessary zero words before all arithmetic operations. This will help ensure that there are no zero words, which can simplify the speed of checking for zero because we only need to check the first word.
- [ ] Check the `floor_divide()` function of `BigUInt`. Currently, the speed of division between imilar-sized numbers are okay, but the speed of 2n-by-n, 4n-by-n, and 8n-by-n divisions decreases unproportionally. This is likely due to the segmentation of the dividend in the Burnikel-Ziegler algorithm.
- [ ] Make all default constructor "safe", which means that the words are checked and normalized to ensure that there are no zero words and that the number is in a valid state. This will help prevent bugs and ensure that all `BigUInt` instances are in a consistent state. Also allow users to create "unsafe" `BigUInt` instances if they want to, but there must be a key-word only argument, e.g., `raw_words`.

- [x] (#31) The `exp()` function performs slower than Python's counterpart in specific cases. Detailed investigation reveals the bottleneck stems from multiplication operations between decimals with significant fractional components. These operations currently rely on UInt256 arithmetic, which introduces performance overhead. Optimization of the `multiply()` function is required to address these performance bottlenecks, particularly for high-precision decimal multiplication with many digits after the decimal point.
- [x] Implement different methods for augmented arithmetic assignments to improve memeory-efficiency and performance.
- [x] Implement a method `remove_leading_zeros` for `BigUInt`, which removes the zero words from the most significant end of the number.
- [x] Use debug mode to check for uninitialized `BigUInt` before all arithmetic operations. This will help ensure that there are no uninitialized `BigUInt`.

Commit message:

[decimal] Implement `quantize()` function for `BigDecimal` (#126)
Implement `quantize()` function for `BigDecimal` type. Add unit tests
for it.

docs/todo.md, after:

# TODO

This is a to-do list for DeciMojo.

- [ ] When Mojo supports **global variables**, implement a type `Context` and a global variable `context` for the `BigDecimal` class to store the precision of the decimal number and other configurations. This will allow users to set the precision globally, rather than having to set it for each function of the `BigDecimal` class.
- [ ] When Mojo supports **enum types**, implement an enum type for the rounding mode.
- [ ] Implement a complex number class `BigComplex` that uses `BigDecimal` for the real and imaginary parts. This will allow users to perform high-precision complex number arithmetic.
- [ ] Implement different methods for adding decimojo types with `Int` types so that an implicit conversion is not required.
- [ ] Use debug mode to check for unnecessary zero words before all arithmetic operations. This will help ensure that there are no zero words, which can simplify the speed of checking for zero because we only need to check the first word.
- [ ] Check the `floor_divide()` function of `BigUInt`. Currently, the speed of division between imilar-sized numbers are okay, but the speed of 2n-by-n, 4n-by-n, and 8n-by-n divisions decreases unproportionally. This is likely due to the segmentation of the dividend in the Burnikel-Ziegler algorithm.
- [ ] Make all default constructor "safe", which means that the words are checked and normalized to ensure that there are no zero words and that the number is in a valid state. This will help prevent bugs and ensure that all `BigUInt` instances are in a consistent state. Also allow users to create "unsafe" `BigUInt` instances if they want to, but there must be a key-word only argument, e.g., `raw_words`.

- [x] (#31) The `exp()` function performs slower than Python's counterpart in specific cases. Detailed investigation reveals the bottleneck stems from multiplication operations between decimals with significant fractional components. These operations currently rely on UInt256 arithmetic, which introduces performance overhead. Optimization of the `multiply()` function is required to address these performance bottlenecks, particularly for high-precision decimal multiplication with many digits after the decimal point.
- [x] Implement different methods for augmented arithmetic assignments to improve memeory-efficiency and performance.
- [x] Implement a method `remove_leading_zeros` for `BigUInt`, which removes the zero words from the most significant end of the number.
- [x] Use debug mode to check for uninitialized `BigUInt` before all arithmetic operations. This will help ensure that there are no uninitialized `BigUInt`.
